81.
Today, he
made a few jokes about his age
during the annual Thanksgiving turkey.
Pardon?
And late tonight,
this picture was posted
on the president's Instagram account.
It's a birthday cake ablaze
with candles, the comment reads.
Thanks for the birthday
well-wishes today, everyone.
Turns out on your 146th birthday.
You run out of space for candles.
The White House tonight
leaning into
what is considered
one of Biden's biggest
political liabilities his age.
Right now,
he is showing poorly in the polls,
particularly among younger voters.
They backed him in 2020
by about 20 points.
Polls now show that support collapsing.
A new one from NBC
shows the former president,
the former president Donald Trump,
leading President Biden
46 to 42% among 18 to 34 year olds.
What's more, 70% of young voters
disapprove of Biden's
handling of the Israel-Hamas war.
The White House press
secretary was asked
about that disapproval today
by our MJ Lee. This is what she said.
But what
I'll be very clear about
is we
going to not going to govern by polls
here.
We're going to our poll numbers.
We're going to focus on delivering
for the American people.
That's going to be our focus on the war.
And young voters
are the focus
of John King's latest
installment of his series for 360
All Over the Map.
The series tracks
the presidential campaign
through the eyes
and experiences of voters
who live in key battleground states.
Tonight,
Michigan and John King joins me here now.
So, John,
what did you find out this time?
Look, imagine you're back in college,
you're 18 or 19, you're 20.
81. Seems pretty old.
And it's not just the number.
They think he's just far away
from them on the issues.
They think he doesn't
understand their issues,
even though he's tried
to do some things on college debt,
they think they don't get it.
So age was an issue anyway
with this bedrock
piece of the Biden coalition.
And now, John,
when you go to campus,
you see the protests
about the Israel-Hamas war on both sides.
People raise questions
about how the president's handling it.
Midterms are done.
Final's just ahead.
There is a rhythm to life on campus.
And this fall, a raw divide.
I am an Israeli,
Jewish, Israeli American.
My segment is a sophomore
at Wayne State in Michigan,
studying social work,
chatting with friends here
at the Jewish campus
organization Hillel or Hillel
as a police officer down the hall.
That's not normal.
It is now.
Siegman traveled to Washington
last week to join thousands
in support of Israel.
Now back on a campus divided,
the divisions are very clear.
The tension on campus is very high.
Wayne State spans
200 acres in downtown Detroit.
Ibrahim Ghezzal
among the 24,000 students.
I'm Muslim. I'm American.
I'm Palestinian.
Ghezzal calls anti-Semitism
horrible and disgusting.
Do you feel the flip side of it,
or is there more of Islamophobia?
More Islamophobia? And people just say.
I think it's I think it's
disgusting that
standing up for children dying
and women
dying and civilian infrastructure
being destroyed
is being compared to supporting Hamas.
I mean, holding up
a Palestinian flag
does not support Hamas.
Hamas has their own flag.
Nobody's carrying their flag.
This coffee shop is in Dearborn,
where about half of the residents
are of Arab ancestry.
Jocelyne, his friends say a president
they supported in 2020
is now greenlighting an Israeli response
they see as indiscriminate.
And I don't think our country
should fund that type of reaction.
You feel this way
To an extent, yes.
I feel as though
President Biden doesn't value
my life as a muslim American
as much as he values other lives.
Young voters
were a giant part of the Biden
2020 Coalition,
and this urban campus tilts deep blue.
If it's Biden Trump next November,
you would.
I'd go Biden.
Some are.
Malkin is just 18,
a theater major, an E-sports enthusiast,
and an LGBTQ voter
who wishes President Biden
would yield to someone younger.
I think that weird
generational gap is something
that is very, very hard for young people.
So when there's certain things
that we want to be heard as young people
with not only
the conflict out with Israeli
and Palestine people,
but we also have like student loan
forgiveness and all of these different
financial problems
that aren't being handled
when there are very much capable
of being handled.
Malkin isn't ruling out
voting third party,
but feels like a weird
kind of throwaway vote.
Joseph Fisher used to think that way,
but right now he favors
a socialist party.
In 2020, Fisher was just 17,
but he helped the ACLU
register voters back home in Georgia.
So you helped Joe Biden get elected?
I did, yes.
What about 2024?
I will not vote for Joe Biden.
Not this time.
This is Ann Arbor,
the University of Michigan students
writing the names of Palestinians
killed in Gaza.
One of our demands that we're pressuring
Adnan for right now
is complete divestment
from the state of Israel.
You say genocide?
Yes.
The prime minister of Israel
or the president of United States
would say response to terrorism.
Absolutely.
It's and it's absolutely essential
that we call it
for what it is a genocide
and also say
that it doesn't start on October 17th.
It started in 1948
with the creation of the Saudi
colonial state of Israel.
Some Jewish students say talk like that.
Beliefs like that
are stoking an alarming rise
in anti-Semitism.
I wish it wasn't like this,
but this is what we live right now.
50,000 students here
in Ann Arbor
and interest in the college
Democrats is up.
We've had 50, 40, 30
consistently for meetings.
And in the past
it has been closer to maybe
ten, 15,
20 seniors and co-presidents
of the College Democrats,
Anoushka Jala, Saki
and Jade Gray helped
generate big turnout here
in 2020 and again in 2022.
They have weekly meetings
now to plan 2024.
Should we have somebody younger?
Does that come up much?
Absolutely.
It comes up.
And I think that that's a
you know, it's a real point to make.
It's a real conversation to be had.
The immediate challenge,
though, is seeing students
who agree on things
like abortion rights
and defending democracy
at odds over
the Israel-Hamas
crisis and President Biden's response.
You know, Mr.
President,
I've seen you take key
humanitarian steps,
but I think the next step is a cease fire
and I think that that would go a long way
with voters.
I don't know what's happened
next week or next month,
but if the election were tomorrow,
do you think that it is more likely
some of your members would sit out
or look for another option, third party,
because they're mad
at the president about this?
Some of them, yes.
They have shared with us
that maybe this is making me reconsider.
Is it fair to say you're glad
the election is not tomorrow? Yes,
sir.
John, we saw in the latest poll
where former President
Donald Trump
is now ahead of President Biden
with younger voters.
Where does that fit with
the data you're seeing?
We didn't see John either at Wayne State,
which is a very remember in downtown
Detroit, a blue campus
or even at Ann Arbor, a rush to Trump.
But you do see a lot of hesitation
about the president.
So let me just bring up those numbers
as we go through.
And you see the Michigan map here
from 2020.
Here's that new national poll
you talked about.
One key distinction I want to make.
NBC polled voters ages
18 to 34 in the exit polls.
It's 18 to 29.
We do know as voters start to get older,
they're more likely
they're not rushing to the Republicans,
but they're more likely so.
But still, if you look at this
and then if you go back
and look nationally
at 2016 versus 2020,
President Trump got 36% of 18 to 29.
He got 36% again in 2020,
both in 2016 and 20.
President getting 36.
So if he's above 40,
that's a big gain for President Trump.
So what is the issue?
Look at President Biden.
He got 60% in 2022, 55%
for Hillary Clinton.
It was a key
piece of the Biden coalition.
And, John,
when you asked
voters on
campus, number one, the age
they see the president, they don't
they don't see him enough.
And so they think, wow,
he doesn't understand us.
He doesn't get us.
Those college Democrats presence.
They were trying to deal with that issue,
saying you're not just voting
for the president,
you're voting
for who he puts on the Supreme Court.
You're voting for abortion rights.
You're voting to protect democracy.
They were just trying to start
that conversation on campus.
And then October 7th happened.
And you see this divide on campus
where the Jewish students say
they feel afraid
and the progressive students saying
the president should call
for a cease fire.
They say if he doesn't,
they might not vote at all
or they might go third party.
And if you look how close Michigan is,
that would be a problem.
And again, the Biden reelect campaign
certainly knows all this.
It'll be interesting
to see how they choose to address it
over the coming weeks and months.
John King, great to have you. Thank you.